When I demonstrated the creation of the JobConfiguration,
I injected a step instance, but I never configured it.
We're going to do that now.
I'm displaying the BatchJobConfiguration class that we just created.
I'm going to use it again for step creation.
Note that I'll be defining a new member on the
Configuration class called StepBuilderFactory.
Just as Spring Batch provides you a DSL for defining the configuration of a job,
the framework also provides you with a DSL for
defining the configuration of a step.
Once again, a step is simply a phase in the processing of a job.
It defines a reader, a processor, and a writer.
Given this,
the StepBuilderFactory will provide you with support for defining what reader,
processor, and writer to use as part of the configuration.
Steps are configured to use the concept of a tasklet.
A tasklet simply defines what task the step will actually perform.
To begin with,
I'm going to demonstrate creating a simple tasklet
that just prints out Hello World!
As we continue with the course,
I'll be replacing the demo tasklet with an
implementation of chunk-oriented processing,
or chunking.
Chunking simply refers to processing where data is read one record at a time,
processed, and then grouped into chunks to be written out to an endpoint.
Chunking is a type of tasklet.
As we go through the course,
I'll demonstrate chunking by creating a custom reader for reading a file,
a custom processor,
and a custom writer to write chunks of data out to the database.
I'm once again displaying the BatchJobConfiguration class.
This is the Bean I'll be defining for the simple
implementation of a tasklet for the job step.
I'm going to use the stepBuilderFactory to start the definition of the step,
similar to how I used the JobBuilderFactory earlier for the job.
The stepBuilderFactory will use a STEP_NAME that I've defined in a
Constants class to retrieve an instance of a stepBuilder.
The stepBuilder will have a reference to the JobRepository and
TransactionManager that we configured earlier.
Next, I'll use the stepBuilder instance to build a step with a custom tasklet.
This returns an instance of Tasklet stepBuilder.
There are several other types of stepBuilders available for
creating remote steps and flow steps.
In the custom tasklet execution, I'll just be printing out Hello World!
for now.
The execute method has a parameter of type StepContribution,
which is a buffer for storing the details of processing such as read,
process, and write counts.
It also has a parameter of type ChunkContext,
which is the context object for data stored during the duration of a chunk.
For our simple example, I won't be updating either of these inputs.
At the end of the method, I return a RepeatStatus.
This is an enumeration that tells Spring Batch to either
continue processing or that processing is complete.
Now that we know how to configure a step, let's do it in the demo application.
I'll be following Demo 6 found in the DEMOS.
md file in the root project directory.
With the Spring Batch job configured,
I'll now demonstrate the creation of a job step.
The step will define the reader, processor, and writer for the job.
In the next parts of this course, I'll implement the actual reader,
writer, and processor.
But for now, I'll just create a testable implementation.
Let's start by opening up the class BatchJobConfiguration.
This is the same class where we defined the JobConfiguration.
I'm going to start by adding stepBuilderFactory as a member on the class.
The stepBuilderFactory member that I defined will provide
us with a DSL for configuring the step.
Next, I need to define the actual step configuration.
Let's drop in the step method.
First, you'll notice that I've once again used a constant,
this time to define the STEP_NAME, similar to what I did with the JOB_NAME.
Let's open up the Constants class.
I'm going to add the constant for the STEP_NAME.
You see here now that the STEP_NAME is process-patients-step.
Let's go back to our BatchJobConfiguration class,
and we can note here that the stepBuilderFactory will get an
instance of stepBuilder using the STEP_NAME.
Next, I define the custom tasklet execution to print out Hello World!
Finally, the definition of the step is ended by calling the build method. That completes the demo for our step configuration.